One of the ~~only~~ ~~single~~ very few things that are consistent across all accounts of ~~Qu~~ his story is a lighthouse having played a part in things. Sometimes he owned it, not nearly as often he stole it from someone and in one particular case, he built it with... breezies? The wording's not clear about whether or not Breezies helped him build it *or* he literally made bricks out of breezies.

~~Death of the author, ahoy!~~

Is this humor now?

This is depressing.

So he has a tower. It's the old story, big wizard with big tower.  But that tower, what if we could use it to find out way back somehow? He was a Cir back then, which equals having a *lot* of magic and knowledge at his disposal. Furthemore in a lot of versions the moon is explicitly or implicitly another world in some way, or in one.

And...

> First in the bottom, where you drown
> 
> Then on the top, where you turn
> 
> Then to the center, you will be drawn. 

How many times have I near-drowned? It's been over a year here, and I've been high enough, as high as I could possibly be on the backs of the giant whiles that soar the skies and it was almost like I could grasp for the moon. So what is the center? What does this prophesy doohickey expect from me-- and what will it do *to* me?

Even more, what if this is related somehow to the lighthouse? If the top and the bottom are those levels of it? The bottom of the lighthouse is underwater, because all lighthouses here either need absurdly wide bases or weighted blocks below to not fall sideways on the water. The top is the point where I can't go anywhere else: Workers go there, push (turn) the light so it points somewhere else, and turn around to go back inside. Maybe I am not thinking at the right scale, but the only other options are too crazy or I've done them already.

I am grasping at straws here, but I need to grasp if I want a stronger hold of things.



1. ~~Research Quesque's tower~~
2. Compile more versions of his story. If they have dragons, might as well check if the dragon is still kicking.
1. ~~Research Dudaic mythology~~
2. Rewrite, correct, transcribe to journal.