[...]Among griffons they [gods] would be grepas, among minotaurs **{**core-melter / thread-bearers / path-makers?**}**[^chu], among breezies they're **{**Flock-head / Stomper? The later can't be right. **}**[^chu], and while these all hold interesting properties and connotations, the **{**arrival / fall? **}** of ponies [^ponies] has brought a new and interesting take on a form for divinity to take: Alicorns.

As happens with grepas, **{**cm/tb/pm**}**, and all other idealizations of sapients, to understand Alicorns












[...]Consider then the assumed nature of alicorns, brought to us with the arrival of ponies, who hold inside the three-spirits-that-are-four[^word]\: A pony is contemplative yet ruthless, the pegasus wild and ecstatic, the unicorn fiery yet focused. These are [...] conflictive by nature, and it's not mere cultural traits: It's [...] a product of how their magics operate and affect their predisposition.[...]

It comes to reason then that alicorns are, by nature, *holistic* creatures, as it takes a great mind, resilient body, and trained soul to congeal those three spirits into the fourth, the alicornian spirit; A spirit that's indomitable and, of course, part of the world.

Which is no mere poetry. For them to not subjugate this disparity but instead direct it into their holistic selves, both internal and external pressure must be required: Inner is their own will and beauty, but outer must be a <u>mythical force</u> of duality, union, or harmony of some sort that presses them at all times to remain whole[...]

It's all this that supports the theory of [...] the pony goddesses being, did they have physical forms, alicorns. Their longevity would give them the time to forge themselves into iron, and their roles mean that the required forces to congeal said iron[^iron]-The dual duality of the sun and moon, rock and water- are an inherent part of them.
<div align="right">-Cir Quesque, <i>Treila reila; alicornia</i></div>

[^ponies]:
What?

[^word]:
Note to self: find out for sure what does <u>'quatro que conjugou três'</u> actually mean; not griffonic dialicts from that time period like the rest of his notes. Is it *Vy'arenda*? It translates from that. But I need a larger sample size to tell from sure, or to see it used in other contexts. Why does that griffon like obfuscating things so much?
<p>On that mater, all the writing in this church! Half of them insult me, the other half insult themselves, and that's only the ones I can read.

[^iron]:
And why is he so insistent on iron? It's a bad material here. It rusts much faster than their copper.

[^chu]: 
Ask Chundra.