Very recently I met a curious pony. ~~S~~ he was tall and had wings like old Queen Schezerade's tales narrate. This pony, named "Before Storm" -when I asked the meaning of it, ~~s~~ he alluded to it being a long story-  attracted my attention in one of Landly's canteens and, over much drink, told me his story.

He claims to hail from seas called 'Land', which is not water but a seemingly endless surface. His city is named Pegasopolis, which he claims, is at war with unicorns and ponies, whom he calls "Eartherns." Through some twist of destiny, he and his entire household -which due to bad luck was not garrisoned- were transported here, bypassing the extreme distance that we both agreed must separate us seeing as how no common point could be agreed by us. He did not know even the cold or warm seas, and I cannot fathom what a 'desert' is as much as he tried to explain it. This mishap was two months -Or as he said it, a moon and a half- ago, and he has been searching for a way back since.

We discussed the differences between the cold seas and the land's for several hours and I will, indeed, write them down once I've put my thoughts in order, but the most curious part was, this was familiar to me. I talked with acquaintances about it until I could remember why.

A Duda captain I know of the Bon Line, very old even among his kind, also met two land seekers -for he called them that- in his life, centuries apart. The last one was unremarkable, a mumbling, lost mare, but before that was a curious one. He refused to give his name, claiming that he had given up for his Lady- the moon lady, none less, who honoured his sacrifice with the title of baturai.