#Taint’s purpose? (ToDo: Find better name or divide into separate thesis)

####Thesis

#####The intent of taint

An important fact to consider when discussing this is that, by my understanding and in accordance to the claims of several taint creatures […] taint beasts need *not* be dangerous and vile. While their intelect leaves much to wish the modus operandi of the Wheels, taint’s magical makeup, and observation of mythical reiterations in this world and others indicate that in fact, it’s an entirely unneeded aspect of their beings.

They are made powerful so they are feared and have to be destroyed, and emotionally stunted so they grow vile; In almost every aspect, it’s the Wheels of the Heavens who make them be that way. A simple way to make mortals destroy them -the sickness in the Wheels-  as far as I understand.

Yet I can’t fight the Wheels of the World’s designs, so I must fight taint.

#####The nature and reproduction of taint

While taint lacks a method of reproduction (Meaning, it has to be made by the Wheels), almost every taint creature has the ability to spread by blood when close to death, gaining a form of immortality via reincarnation. The fenomena is fascinating but unnotorious to observe in simple animals, but it gains several layers on sentient creatures, and even more in sapient beings.

While cases exist of those resisting the effects of the infection […] [Without external aid] all but one case that I’ve seen succumb to it slowly as time moves on: Descriptions of a ‘fog in their mind’ abound, and so does a strong fever, although this may be either psychosomathic, or purely increased activity in the organism.

Strong emotions, especially those that lead to emotional isolation, also affect taint greatly, as they are an opening for the infection to manipulate its host subtly: For example anger, shame, grief, artistic inspiration, pride are commonly chief among those, whereas emotions that lead to socialization (romantic love, exhilaration, loneliness, escapism, etc. Sexual atraction seems to have no effect whatsoever, as it leads to contact with only one person) have a simple, absolutely not magical effect of making the subject maintain healthy degrees of self doubt, making it much harder for taint to warp the mind. Certain forms of depression can ironically render taint completely ineffectual also, as any attempt it makes to affect the subject’s preconceptions will be immediately discarded and forgotten.

[ToDo: Note that those infected by taint often display mutual atraction, be it romantic, physical, or platonic. Maybe note how it’s odd as their offspring is not particularly affected, so it can’t be for reproduction?]

The warping of the mind is not a one way route nor is it immediate, though: The siren magics of their six verbs or healthy mindsets can undo those aspects of the infection as they can any other mental illness, and in strong willed people the effects can take up to decades, maybe more than the person will even naturally live. Trapping the infection in this way may be a way to kill a taint beast, although it presents moral conundrums.

However it is also situational. As taint once contained can replace a person as it dies, I believe it might lead to cases of functional immortality; The user will not age and have an ability to heal much faster than they would otherwise, restoring broken bone in mere days in extreme cases, or it might have the user being slowly replaced by the taint infection that besets it. The Pie case merits further observation. 

This prolonged contact with a mortal may also affect the taint creature in unforeseen ways over time, even causing it to mature emotionally. I wonder what would the Wheels do in one such case.

[ToDO: Trailed off, might require being separated into three papers?
Who am I writing this for anywa


