I had oftimes w~~a~~ondered how came I never had to learn any equine, siren, or grip~~h~~osic language after being brought to the sea. How much of a coincidence is it that not only two countries, but two *worlds* speak with the same tongues and very little diference in accents? None of it matched, but among the slews of strangeness that in particular was a little blessing.

~~But Whi~~ Somehow I hadn't considered asking Whisper about this. By the time we met I had almost forgotten about that, I guess, and accepted it as ~~pa~~ just part of the strangeness.

So I was confused when I saw Sliver struggle a little to make herself understood by a gr~~yph~~ffon, a while ago. I hadn't seen this before.

 "It's all them verbs", said Whisper. "They are weird here."

I asked him what he meant, of course. And his answer was that while he brought us here, it wasn't necesary that we take *all* of the hassle of being in a new world. Just the cosmic dread-y part.

Because as unnerving as it is, the languages were put into our heads, somehow. And not only this, but talking with him and Sliver tongues are *much* looser here. Everyone is at least trilingual, and both foals and adults can learn new languages with disconcerting ease- with speed that one'd normally only ever expect in a five years old in fact.

What's more disconcerting still this trait is not present in either me -well, I did have experience with linguistics before-, Whisper, or either of his daughters. Which means that the structure of our brains -probably wildly diferent from the sea's inhabitants- wasn't altered, but that we simply had the information 'injected' and that this isn't inheritable. ~~Creepy~~ Unnerving still, but not nearly as much.

What's interesting in this is that ~~Ques~~ he didn't think it necessary -or thought it dangerous- to teach us the moonlet/duda bilanguage, older siren dialects, or well as the local breezie language.

Which still leaves me with the question of how do those little survive at all anywhere, but let's ignore it.

__Note to self: Clean this up, transcribe it to jo~~r~~urnal, burn the original. So many typos.__
We're there.
