<<<<<<< HEAD
While the event that set it off remains a mystery, the trinary war affects Dudas and moonlets to this day. It's valid to wonder how exactly were they made to fight against each other when before, and since near the end of it, they have been close in culture and person; so much, in fact, that they share what scholars call bronze bispeech, the same language but "said diferent" by moonlets, due to their particular vocal chords. All sources I've been able to find point to that understanding moonlets will be an act of intuition once I learn enough from Dudas, which makes the proespect all the more fascinating [...]

Going back to the subject of the war, while the triggering event is unknown -covered in the same haze of ignorance as everything concerning their creator- it's known that the first period of the war lasted aproximately fifty years, until moonlets somehow broke out of the servitor doctrine they were, quite literally, ingrained into. Apparently they were a more recent creation -theorized to be meant to replace dudas eventually- yet had made great strides, pun not intended, in turning the war against Dudas in their creators' favor, partly due to the ingrained flaws moonlets were designed with; a lesser ability to focus on individual tasks when not instructed, inability to communicate directly with most other peoples, and lethally high metabolism all would've greatly helped keep them in servitude effectively.

It's unknown when does their ritualistic doctrine start appearing- it's first reported, of all historical records I can find, in a city state called Pehuamar where a battle between Dudas and moonlets takes place. Amidst it, several moonlets are spotted breaking into a chapel of the big brother and stealing several relics And objects of reverence yet ignoring greatly more valuable items. At the time it was taken an attack, a warning that the war would be not only against Dudas, but on ponies as well.
=======
 [By an equestrian. The uncle Shinning mentions? ]

 While the event that set it off remains a mystery, the trinary war affects 
Dudas and moonlets to this day. It's valid to wonder how exactly were they 
made to fight against each other when before, and since near the end of it, 
they have been close in culture and person; so much, in fact, that they 
share what scholars call bronze bispeech, the same language but "said 
diferent" by moonlets, due to their particular vocal chords. All sources 
I've been able to find point to that understanding Dudas will be an act of 
intuition once I learn enough from Dudas, which makes the proespect all the 
more fascinating [...]

 Going back to the subject of the war, while the triggering event is unknown 
-covered in the same haze of ignorance as everything concerning their 
creator- it's known that the first period of the war lasted aproximately 
fifty years, until moonlets somehow broke out of the servitor doctrine they 
were, quite literally, ingrained into. They were a more recent creation 
-theorized to be meant to replace dudas eventually- yet had made great 
strides, pun not intended, in turning the war against Dudas in their 
creators' favor, partly due to the ingrained flaws moonlets were designed 
with; a lesser ability to focus on individual tasks when not instructed, 
inability to communicate directly with most other peoples, and lethally high 
metabolism all would've greatly helped keep them in servitude effectively.

 It's unknown when does their ritualistic doctrine start appearing- it's 
first reported, of all historical records I can find, in a city state called 
Pehuamar where a battle between Dudas and moonlets takes place. Amidst it 
several moonlets are spotted breaking into a mouna [^mouna] of the big 
brother and stealing several relics And objects of reverence yet ignoring 
greatly more valuable items. At the time it was taken an attack, a warning 
that the war would be not only against Dudas, but against ponies as well.

 Quickly after this several incidents ocurr, with the moonlets attacking 
mounas and on ocasion even desecrating solairs [^solair] and other chapels. 
Their demeanor changes quickly however, once their aggresions are 
reciprocated; The first case of them acting more peacefuly is in a 
nondescript village near what would eventually be the Nikkal storm

[^mouna][^solair]:A chapel dedicated to the worship of the big brother as 
ponies perceive him. Sometimes it's wrongly seen as opposite of solairs, 
where the big sister is worshiped in a similar fashion, but historically 
both worships have been non-exclusive and in some cases even complementary, 
bar particular incidents such as this and more recent developments following
Lord's Betrayal.
>>>>>>> aa397be61a51aea3cb8eda8c9f22bfec7df1c64f
