[By an equestrian. The uncle Shinning mentions? ]

While the event that set it off remains a mystery, the trinary war affects Dudas and moonlets to this day. It's valid to wonder how exactly were they made to fight against each other when before, and since near the end of it, they have been close in culture and person; so much, in fact, that they share what scholars call bronze bispeech, the same language but "said diferent" by moonlets, due to their particular vocal chords. All sources I've been able to find point to that understanding Dudas will be an act of intuition once I learn enough from Dudas, which makes the proespect all the more fascinating [...]

Going back to the subject of the war, while the triggering event is unknown -covered in the same haze of ignorance as everything concerning their creator- it's known that the first period of the war lasted aproximately fifty years, until moonlets somehow broke out of the servitor doctrine they were, quite literally, ingrained into. They were a more recent creation -theorized to be meant to replace dudas eventually- yet had made great strides, pun not intended, in turning the war against Dudas in their creators' favor, partly due to the ingrained flaws moonlets were designed with; a lesser ability to focus on individual tasks when not instructed, inability to communicate directly with most other peoples, and lethally high metabolism all would've greatly helped keep them in servitude effectively.

It's unknown when does their ritualistic doctrine start appearing- it's first reported, of all historical records I can find, in a city state called Pehuamar where a battle between Dudas and moonlets takes place. Amidst it, several moonlets are spotted breaking into a chapel of the big brother and stealing several relics And objects of reverence yet ignoring greatly more valuable items. At the time it was taken an attack, a warning that the war would be not only against Dudas, but on ponies as well.